[Music]
hello and welcome to the fourth explore
livestream event it's a very exciting
livestream event today because Oxbow
recently turned one so I hope you are
all as well as looking forward to our
debate also very excited that you know
to celebrate with us at Explorer is now
one I Tom Crawford I'm a mathematician
here at the University of Oxford and I
will be hosting the debate we have three
panelists from the university academics
who will introduce themselves shortly
but we've got a somebody working in
biology we've got an experimental
psychologist and also somebody working
in English and you may be wondering this
is quite a quite a mix of topics there
and that's because we have a very
interesting big question that we're
going to be discussing which is do we
see color the same so you know having
hopefully thought a little bit about the
question and as I said you'll be hearing
from our panel and our thoughts from the
academics we want you guys watching to
basically send in your questions and let
us know your thoughts throughout this
whole event so you can get in touch on
email you can get in touch on Twitter
Instagram at let's explore you can get
in touch on the chat window and if you
do send in questions please do let us
know your school I'll give a shout out
to the schools and then we can put your
questions to the panel but before we
introduce the panel we have a little
animation for you just to get you
thinking about this big question do we
see color the same
[Music]
so hopefully a few things for you to
think about and get the the gears in
your brain starting to get moving so
it's probably time we should meet our
panel
so I will allow them to introduce us
there to introduce themselves starting
with some scientist in the novel
Department of clinical neuroscience and
my research focuses on light-sensitive
cells that lie in a tissue which is at
the back of the eye and the tissue is
called the retina and the
light-sensitive cells are called
photoreceptors there's different types
of these photoreceptor cells
so there's cones which are responsible
for our bright light and color vision
we're going to be talking a lot more
about them in a little while
there are rods which are responsible for
our dim light vision and we've known
about these cells for about 200 years
so quite a while but within the last
twenty years or so we've identified a
new photoreceptor cell type and that's
what my research has focused on and
these cells are not involved in your
normal visual function but in what we
call non-image forming functions things
like your internal body clock and
setting that to the environmental
lighting so your internal clock dries
things like sleep when you go to sleep
at night and when you wake up but it
needs a reference point so it needs to
know what the lighting environment is to
be able to set its own rhythm and it's
this new class photoreceptor cells which
recall melanopsin expressing
photoreceptor cells that drive this
light input to the system that sets your
internal body clock and that's what my
research is focused on
last few years so anything to do with
biology how how our eyes work and how we
actually turn those those signals into
colors and images questions for some
hello hi I'm Hannah Smithson I'm based
in experimental psychology here in
Oxford and my focus focuses on human
color vision so I'm particularly
interested in the way that the eye and
brain process visual signals to give
rise to our perceptive color in general
the experiments that we do work with
adults human volunteers with normal
color vision and we'll measure very
carefully people's ability to
discriminate between different colors if
we can tell that somebody can tell the
difference between two lights reliably
so above chance they're not just
guessing then we can also infer that
their eye and brain must have processed
the difference between those two stimuli
and most of the effort in our
experiments goes into carefully defining
the stimuli that we're going to use to
test people's ability to sense this
information and so by carefully choosing
the stimuli we can infer things that are
really very biological in a sense we can
infer some of the properties of the
photoreceptor cells that are in the
retina if we use more complex stimuli we
can also infer how people perceive color
and how that depends on the context in
which colored lights are presented and
so we're moving from sensing color all
the way through to interpreting the
color of objects and colors in the
context of a more complex visual scene
thank you honey so any questions on how
we perceive color they will be directed
to Hannah and finally Nicholas hi I'm
Nicholas Gaskell I'm in the English
faculty at the University of Oxford and
I studied the cultural and literary
history of color so because color is
involved in so many different corners of
culture this means that I have sort of
dipped into a lot of different
disciplinary areas so for instance I've
studied
the chemistry of dye production
psychological theories of color
perception but also painting interior
design practices educational manuals
about how and why kids should study
color in school and also novels and
poems and advertising strategies so a
whole range of things and in each case I
look at this material in order to figure
out what people at a particular time
specifically 19th and 20th century
United States what they thought color
was what they used it for what they
thought it did to our minds and our
bodies and and what it came to mean for
them so that's a lot of my research and
in some ways just understanding the
cultural history of color for me is
interesting enough but for me it becomes
even more interesting when we think
about ideas about color historical ideas
about color as being a kind of shorthand
for bigger ideas about how we relate to
the sensory environment more generally
so be that the built environment how is
it that we as embodied people are
encountering and manipulating that
environment so that's what I'm up to so
everything from the kind of nitty-gritty
of chromatic stuff up to abstract
theories of color perception and how
they're written about in novels Thank
You Nicholas so bit of everything really
I think you read that say but sort of
history culture and interpretation of
color will be questions for Nicholas so
thank very much panel and now that we
you hopefully have more of an idea of
our experts and their fields you know
hopefully get thinking up some great
questions get sending those questions in
so yeah chat window email or send them
in on social media app let's explore so
we also have a fun challenge for you to
have a go out which will have a prize
and this challenge is to send in the
best colour name so this has to be a
real color name so you know we will
require like perhaps like a reference or
something to support the color name that
you have found but we want you to send
in the the best colour name that you can
find and then we'll pick our favorite
and send you a prize so just as an
example I really like the name bubblegum
the fact that it's pink I do I don't
know why bubblegum a pig go together but
there is a color called bubblegum and
it's and it's bright pink and I really
like it so that's another challenge for
you right we better get on to some
questions so Nicholas I've got a
question for you to kick us off so based
on our knowledge of history and
literature
do we understand color the same as other
people write so I will defer to my other
panelists on the matter of whether we
see or perceive colors in the exact same
way but if we're thinking about how we
understand colors then absolutely I
think there's variation across cultures
across time periods and I think we can
get at this with a couple of examples so
imagine you're going to a wedding and
what kind of colors do you expect to see
well if you're going to a wedding and
it's in the UK or the US you might
expect to see the bride wearing white
the groom might be wearing black other
men in attendance might be wearing dark
colors black gray navy blue now okay so
that's the UK or the u.s. now imagine
you're going to a wedding in China where
the colors white and black are more
strongly associated with death and
mourning and that it when it's actually
considered a kind of affront to show up
at a wedding in white or black so there
the bride might be wearing a red dress
and the men in attendance might be
wearing brighter colors they would avoid
dark colors so in that case how we
understand white might be very different
from if we see it in one context where
it seems to connote purity to another
context where basically what it means is
you know it's bringing in ideas of death
and things that you don't want anyway so
in any case that's very different that's
thing once so individual colors have
many different meanings and are used in
very many different ways according to
different cultural practices and as they
change in time now that's a point one
point two is that what holds for
individual colors can also hold for
color as a category so in the time
that I study in the late 19th century
it's a moment when synthetic dyes
suddenly made a range of colors
available lots of different consumer
goods in a variety that really wasn't
available before so for instance between
the 1880s and 1920s items like cars and
steam locomotives and bedsheets and pots
and pans and all these different items
clothing paints billboards they all
became more colorful and color was seen
in more places by more people now so
what this did to the category of color
is sort of change it because before
color was associated with royalty the
church the military these were all
places where you would see the most
vivid best colors but then suddenly by
1900 you're seeing these same big bright
colors on circus posters or billboards
and before you know it color starts to
me
bright colors start to signify low taste
or gaudy taste as opposed to the sort of
you know halls of power so there's a
case where it's not just an individual
color but color in general that is
changes that's meaning let's see Thank
You Nicholas right I've got one for you
so much I think follows are really
nicely which is how do we actually see
color so Nicholas has told us all about
how we might understand it differently
but how do we actually see it and I
guess taking it on from that a little
bit as well what kind of things might
make us see it differently
okay so I've alluded to this a little
bit already in my introduction but if we
think about white lights it's actually
composed of all the different colors of
light so if you put light through a
prism it refracts the light and you see
a rainbow okay it splits it into its
component parts and if you think about
light falling this white light falling
on an object what happens is let's say
this red balloon it's a nice bright red
balloon out of here light falls on that
object and some of the light is
reflected back and that's the red light
and that's the light that we see
and other lights are absorbed by that
object but it's that reflected light
that we detect with those cells in the
back of our eye in that tissue called
the retina and the cells are called cone
photoreceptor cells now the simplest
thing would be tough one cone for each
of the different colors but if you
imagine how many different cones we
would have to have it becomes a little
tricky we actually only have three comb
types but these cone cells respond to
lots of colors but they have a
preference for a particular color so we
have red preferring cones green
preferring cones and blue prefer
accounts our red preferring cones are
firing strongly when we look at this red
balloon and although they're responding
to this red Blinn they will respond to
other colors as well but to different
extents so if I gave that red preferring
cone if I stimulated it with a darker
red stimulus and also stimulated it
separately with a bright green stimulus
might actually respond in the same way
okay so or we will respond best to this
bright red stimulus but it might respond
in the same way too to other stimuli and
so how does the system know that there's
a difference in the color that's being
seen well what the system does and this
is at the level of the retina and also
at the level of the brain so there's
more processing that's done in the
visual cortex in the brain and what
happens is it compares the response of
the different cone types of these three
different cone types because a green
preferring cone will be responding very
strongly to that green stimulus for
instance but it won't be responding very
strongly to the dark red or even to this
red stimulus so we look at the
comparisons of the different responses
from the different cone cells and that's
how we detect color and so if I take the
second part of your question but just
address it at the level of the retina so
we have three different cone cell types
so we're called trichromats
so we have tri-chromatic visions
if we think about other animals some of
them have more cones and as you might
guess that might give them a bit of a
wider range of colors that they can see
the bumblebees have a UV sensitive cone
and so they can see UV lights which
helps them to see a nectar for instance
some animals have fewer cones so dogs
have to cone types and it's believed
that they can mainly see in the kind of
yellows and blues and gray region of the
spectrum and not so well in the red
region of the spectrum and this can
happen in humans as well so we can have
some humans who can have a loss of one
of the cone types or a mutation in one
of the cone types which makes them see
slightly differently and so we call this
so we we have red-green color blindness
for instance and this actually can
affect about 8% of the population so
relatively common and red green green
colorblind people can see more into that
kind of blue yellow region of the
spectrum as I was describing with the
dogs we also have blue yellow color
blindness and we can be completely color
blind to not see colors at all that's
quite rare one in about 30,000
individuals but there are exceptions to
this so there's an island in Micronesia
where there's actually one in ten people
are colorblind and apparently this is
because there was a tsunami wiped out
the population there are only a few
people left from which all the
descendents arose and color blindness
was present in that population the
original population that depleted
population and so that then continued on
throughout so there are some reasons at
the level of the retina why you might
have differences in color perception
thank you
I am with you mentioning animals so I
know there's a an unmarked or the mantis
shrimp if any of you haven't heard of
this you should look them up they're
amazing creatures
and they actually have between 12 to 16
receptors in the ice you mentioned
humans have three yes yeah and so of
course we don't really know what these
mantis shrimp see without asking one but
you know the fact that they have twelve
or sixteen mites would it be fair to say
might suggest they could see different
colors or new colors that it would
suggest that they could it depends on
the ranges of each of those different
types it might be that they're very
overlapping and then they might not see
very different to what we see so it just
depends on the range that each of these
cones can see fantastic thank you right
Hanna feeling a little effed out so very
good to you so and your question is
going to be how do we perceive color and
I've been formed you're a little visual
yeah okay I want to show you a little
demonstration on the screen now will be
an image and while I'm talking I just
want you to look at the little black dot
that's in the center of the image and
this demonstration will work best if you
can keep your eyes really still on that
black dot so just stare at that image as
as I'm talking so this is quite an
unusual thing to ask you to do you don't
often just keep looking in the same
place for a long time and in a minute
you'll see that that causes some quite
unusual changes in the way you perceive
the world so keep looking at the black
dot but in a minute I'm going to ask for
that to be for that image to be swapped
for another image so I think you've
probably had long enough now keep
looking keep looking and now the image
will be switched okay so if I were to
tell you that that second image is just
a purely black-and-white image it's a
purely grayscale image I think many of
you may be surprised because at that
instant that the image was switched
you'll have seen full Technicolor in
that second image and so what's going on
well I mentioned earlier that one of my
research interests is in the way that
context or recent history of your
perceptual experience how that changes
the way you perceive
color and in this case what we've done
with the first image is we've chosen the
colors in that image very carefully
we've chosen those colors so that
they're the complementary color of the
original photograph so for example in
the original photograph the sky was blue
as you might expect and in the original
image that you were staring at that
would be the orangish region and orange
is the complementary color to blue and
what happens when your eye is linger on
that dot in the center of the image for
a long time is that the part of your
retina that was exposed to say the
orange light was fatigued and so the
components of your visual signal visual
system that signal Orange were fatigued
or adapted so when you take that six
stimulus away and replace it by a grey
stimulus what you see is essentially the
gray stimulus - the thing you were
looking at before you've become
desensitized to the first image and so
what you see is the opposite of the
image that you've been adapting to and
we've chosen the colors carefully so
that the opposite image actually gives
you a good true-to-life percept of the
castle in the sky and the green grass so
we can just flip back again to the
original image remind yourselves that
you've got orange in the top purpley
colors in the bottom and we flip to the
the grayscale image again and that
demonstration will be refreshed just for
a moment and there's the original image
again and for that brief moment you'll
see the colors again if you don't
believe me that I really am showing you
a grayscale image at this point if
you've got a recording of this video you
can always play it backwards and just
convince yourself that the second image
really is gray and that the colors you
see in it are to do with the way that
your eye and brain have processed that
information so think the thing that I
find most interesting about this
demonstration is
that it reminds us that color isn't
necessarily out there in the external
world it really depends on the way our
visual systems sense the incoming light
and our visual systems are continually
adjusting their sensitivity so that
they're most sensitive to changes and so
when we change that image we see this
illusory color percept thank you and the
this this whole video will be on YouTube
so you can actually watch it reverse
like how to suggest it which is perfect
so thank very much because I want to do
the test myself so I haven't done it yet
and I'm really intrigued to see if it
you know if it does work right so we now
have a multiple choice question which is
going to be for our panel and also for
everyone watching at home in at school
so the question is as follows two
linguists gathered : aiming data from 20
languages and found some things that
weren't that were common across them for
instance if a language had only two
terms four colors what were they so this
is your question and we've got a blue
and red B black and white C blue and
white and D black and red so in other
words you could perhaps think of this as
what are the most important colors
within within a language one of the
first colors that sort of got named so
panel do we have any thoughts on this I
think we'll just go in order to keep it
easy so somewhat any thoughts on this
question any way you think of
approaching it of tackling it as a
scientist I'd want to look inside their
eyes and propose what types of cones and
rods they have to determine what they
would be seeing because if they're
seeing in black and white which would be
my initial answer maybe they don't have
cones or maybe they only have one type
of cone and so they can't compare colors
but yeah that's what I'd want to do but
I'm guessing I'm not allowed to do that
have it okay so I might come into it
slightly differently I might think about
the relationship between the way that
our visual system works to process
information that's out there in the in
the world and so ultimately we want our
visual systems to be able to guide our
behavior
and so we're interested in the visual
system processing information that's out
there this question couples something
about vision with something about
language and with language we want
language to be useful in communicating
the most important things in our
environment and so perhaps I'd come at
it in terms of thinking about what's the
information conveyed by those different
colored pairs that you you listed so how
much information is conveyed in a black
and white scene does black and white TV
work it works pretty well you can see
objects pretty well when you've just got
black and white information conveying
that so then I'd make the I make the
hypothesis that perhaps this would be an
efficient thing to put in language to
begin with that actually conveying
differences between light regions and
dark regions might be a useful thing
Nickolas aiming to add yeah great I
might build on what Hannah was saying
and just say that I would also look at
what what are they doing with color in
these different language groups do they
is color important for commerce for them
for their artistic practices and in
other words do they have reasons to
generate certain color names rather than
others in terms of their day-to-day
practices fantastic so hopefully you've
all had a bit of a discussion about this
perhaps have you listened to to what our
panel has to say and sort of given your
your thoughts and come to an answer
which is in fact be black and white so I
think most of our panel were sort of I
think they knew what was going on this
is which is good so because we have sold
you as experts so it's nice when the
paddle against the question correct so
thank you very much and I have a little
bit of information to add so the actual
linguists that carried out this study
for anyone who would like to look into
this more were Brent Berlin and Paul
Kaye and what they found was that black
and white with a the first sort of named
collars in a language and then from they
would then go to red would be third
green and yellow would come next and
they could be in any order then it would
be blue and then brown and then so on
and as I sort of hinted at this this was
their policies was that this was the
these were the most important or the
memorable and noticeable colors in the
environment though I believe Nicolas you
have something to to also add right well
just to say that after they published
their research a lot of people objected
and especially there were
anthropologists who thought that maybe
the study was a little too
western-centric in terms of how it was
framing the question so even just
assuming that color categories are
somehow primary and the most important
in terms of how language carves up
visual experience so maybe some
languages actually care more about
luminescence or brightness or texture
than they do hue and in this regard it's
not so much black and white it's light
and dark and so one question that people
posed is are black and white the same as
light and dark or light and dark color
terms and maybe Berlin and K were kind
of shoehorning some words into a concept
that they already had in their minds so
again as always we thought explore big
questions a lot to think about not quite
as simple or as black and white right
okay I've got a question here for you
some which has come in from Marco so hi
Marco at Park Lane International School
in Prague which is do colorblind people
grow up thinking one color is another
and how can it be treated if indeed it
come so I was sitting next to someone
who was colorblind the other day at
lunch actually and I asked him so how
has this affected you he couldn't really
give me an answer because he'd adapted
to the fact that he was colorblind so he
would take different cues for things and
so it didn't really affect him in any
way apart from when he put up grass so
he's a scientist and when he gave talks
and put it graphs and someone would say
and the orange ball what does that say
and he would be thinking there's no
orange bar there okay so you know in
some contexts it did affect him but in
others he'd adapted to this and the
second part of the question was
treatment its treatment so which we call
a blindness or is there a waiter at the
moment
we can't so potentially I guess you
could replace the gene or you could
change the mutation that's causing the
effect but it's not something that is
available at the moment
no okay future for you on watching
there's a future research question for
you answer to hopefully have a go at
perhaps in the future um thank you right
so Hannah I've got an interesting
question for you here so this has come
in from maysha I hope you saying that
correct at Cheadle Hulme school and this
is when somebody goes blind as a teen or
adult do they begin to perceive color
differently so I think it would depend
on what's causing their blindness this
is also something that some will know a
lot about and has worked on related to
questions so some causes of blindness
will preferentially affect some of the
cones
before they affect for example the rods
so if in the progression of the disease
you find that the cones are selectively
damaged and particularly if one type of
cone is damaged before the other type of
cones then there'll be a change in the
way in which you sense light a light of
different wavelengths and that will have
an impact on your color perception one
thing that is quite strong in terms of
our color perception is that we don't
notice very gradual changes so one thing
that happens as we age as everybody ages
the lens that's in the front of your eye
becomes yellow or in yellow and by the
time you're in your 90s it can be really
quite dark yellow almost brown and
that's acting as a filter across
everything that you see so it's like
looking at the world through this
yellowish filter but as we grow an age
we don't notice that that changes and so
we're slowly readjusting and adapting to
these check
inches in our visual systems as we age
in cataract surgery the lens is taken
out and is replaced by a clear lens so
the days after cataract surgery people
often report that the world looked so
blue the word the colors were so vibrant
and so that moment of change is
particularly when you notice differences
thank you very much right and one for
you Nicholas did people in the past have
different names for colors hmm yes so I
I can only really speak to English but
basically just the linguistic palette
has just grown and it grows with need so
you can think about I mean you mentioned
industry earlier I think in terms of its
effect on color vocabulary but basically
it's not so much that red ceased to be
red red has been red for a very very
very long time but cherry red or
fire-engine red or whatever those are
relatively new so part of the question
is you know part of one of the things
you might think about is like what where
did certain color names come from so
such that instead of just a basic
category of red we get lots of different
reds and sometimes they come from object
names so the most obvious ones in
English or orange and violet we've sort
of adopted those as color terms but they
started as objects and then somebody
said hey we can use this as a color term
but and then you know apricot same thing
but when you get a little into the
consumer era when we've got thousands of
colors and we need thousands of names
it gets so abstract that it's hard to
pin to an object like you know I'm sure
if you go you know shopping for makeup
or something you can see like envy her
no like you know mist it's something
like that but it's hard to actually pin
to a real world object so there's a few
colored native examples I hope you've
all been sending here this part of our
challenge Lucas has given you a few
there right great thank you okay so I
would now like to discuss the dress so
you all you this is coming Oh perhaps
those of those watching
may have thought we might touch on this
so in case you aren't aware this was a
an internet meme and this was a picture
of a dress and some people saw it one
color and other people saw it a
different color in this created all
kinds of debate or very heated arguments
in fact online so we do have the image
for you which I believe we're going to
show on the screen so guys do you
remember which color you saw when you
when you look at this image I still see
white and gold
oh yeah moon black okay so I think big
so as a panel we're going to go
democratically and say that this white
in gold but okay of course you know what
what is going on here really right what
is what is happening that some people do
see this this image in different colors
so I think Hannah this seems like would
be something right up your street
yeah okay so as I said I'm interested in
the way context changes the way we
perceive colors and how colors appear to
us in this image it's a it's a
photograph of a dress it's not a very
good photograph but it's a photograph of
a dress some regions of the photograph
are slightly overexposed so you don't
see much detail in the background for
example but what's happening is that the
the camera is capturing the light that's
reflected from the dress the dress
itself isn't emitting light the only way
that we see it is because it's
reflecting the light that shines on it
and it's reflecting that light back to
the camera and so when we look at that
photograph we've got to make a judgement
our visual systems are used to
perceiving objects and we've got to
decide in the photograph what aspects of
the photograph are due to the
illumination and what aspects of the
photograph are due to the fabric of the
dress itself and so probably the the
strongest consensus on giving an
explanation for this difference between
the population is that people are making
different inferences
about the lighting that's falling on
this this dress and so if you perceive
the dress as though it's in shadow you'd
be more likely to receive the dress as
white and gold if you perceive it as
though it's directly illuminated you'd
be more likely to see it as blue and
black and so that's about how you pause
that image how you make sense of that
photograph that's been presented to you
some people find that the percept is
very robust that whenever you say it
you'll always see it as a waking gold
for example other people find that if
you change the context a little bit you
can influence your perception so for
example if you print out a version of
this photograph cut out the dress and
then put it in different contexts you
might be able to change the way you
perceive to perceive those colors and so
that might give you a little bit of an
insight into how the other group of
people are seeing this thing it sounds
quite similar to your example you gave
us at the beginning we are saying you're
sort of creating a particular you know
you're making the sort of the
environment so that people see a
particular thing yeah yeah fantastic
right so I think that is pretty much all
we're gonna have time for in terms of
audience questions so sorry for everyone
we haven't got to your question but
again thank you for saying them in and
do keep sending them in we will keep the
prize door open until 11 o'clock
tomorrow so do keep sending in your
questions and we will pick our favorites
and send you prizes right so we're going
to sort of have to come to the the final
vote now so there will be a link at the
bottom of the screen which you can go to
to vote and this will be on our on our
question so do we see color the same and
there are four options ranging from
yes/no and maybe there are two different
options in note just together with more
of an explanation there so panel you're
going to also have to answer this
question with the options of Yes No
maybe so we'll start I think with you
some as we have been so do we see color
the same I don't think we do especially
if we consider
the issues with red-green color
blindness but I think it's just not as
simple as one person sees it this way
another person sees it another way
people adapt to having a lack of a
certain cone or it's not common that you
actually have the cone missing you
actually have a problem with that kind
of mutation in that cone and you just
see things slightly differently to
someone else and you can adapt for these
things and it's only in certain
circumstances that it might come out
that actually you're seeing things
slightly differently to other people but
if you talk about if you think about the
perception which Hannah's been talking
about it's not just at the level of the
eye it's also at the level of the
processing of that information at the
level of further back-end there into the
wrestler pressings processing but also
in the brain
maybe Hannah would like to follow up
there so I think it is very difficult to
ask about people's experiences of color
but we can certainly sort of constrain
the question a little bit and say do we
sense color in the same way we know an
awful lot about the underlying biology
and the machinery in our eyes that allow
us to sense light of different
wavelengths but we can also say that
there are some general principles so
even if we don't necessarily say we have
the same experience elicited by a red
fire extinguisher for example but we can
generally often as a population agree on
certain things so for example if I said
to you which colors are pairs of colors
are closer together I think you'd
probably agree that red and orange are
closer together than red and green for
example there's more similarity between
red and orange so there are these
structural properties of the way we
experience color that are quite well
preserved across different people and
things like the color after images for
example that will work in a very high
proportion of the population and so
there are uniformity in the way that our
brains process color information that
are preserved across people
the
I think constrain our color experience
right and I would agree with all of that
and also just say that you know it
depends on what we mean by sea so if we
mean sense perceive or understand so in
the case of history and literature there
are certainly instances of people
understanding colors very differently
but I also agree that I think we know
enough to say that we generally do sense
I mean we can make good generalizations
about the colors of the world so that a
lot of the philosophical speculation
about if my red is your blue sometimes
there's a little uh a little off the
track
fantastic right so I'm getting a general
no would be the okay just have to try
again some kind of yeah Democratic
consensus all right so you've heard from
the panel you've heard from hopefully
you've been discussing this amongst
ourselves and you're in your schools or
with your friends and whatnot so
remember do vote and do keep sending in
your questions they're all the way open
for the prize draw until 11:00 a.m.
tomorrow and then the results of the
vote will be on social media tomorrow
afternoon
so that just leads me to say thank you
very much to our panel for joining us
thank you to everybody watching at home
and at school for joining us I hope
you've hope you've enjoyed it if you are
interested in more of what spot has to
offer please do visit octopod org or
check out let's explore on various
social medias we have lots of very fun
things and and yeah thank you very much
and hopefully see you next time
[Music]